Add C++ indexing guide (#1)
CTPPS/cmssw_vscode: README.md

# cmssw_vscode
Recipies to develop CMSSW using VSCode

## Indexing files

> Indexing files allows VSCode to easily resolve references to imported files.

Reviewer: It would be nice to present in form of screenshot of better animated gif what this tool does.

Readers may not realise that it may allow the vscode user to jump to the source code of some class which is cloned in current session. That should be clearly written here. 

Also some link to vscode indexing feature documentation may be helpful here.

<img width="893" alt="Screenshot 2024-04-27 at 17 09 44" src="https://github.com/CTPPS/cmssw_vscode/assets/7374733/6aae1997-6144-47e9-9b55-ef8029255948">

Author: Done.

### C++
Indexing C++ files is based on the *clangd* extension alongside a *compile-commands.json* file.
1. Install clangd.
    1. In VSCode in the side bar go to *Extensions*.
    2. In the search bar type **clangd**.
    3. Click *Install*.
    4. Click *Install in SSH: lxplus.cern.ch*.
    5. Disable IntelliSense if you have to installed (comes with the C/C++ Microsoft extension).

>         1. In VSCode go to *File -> Settings -> Remote [SSH: lxplus.cern.ch]*.

Reviewer: I do not have File -> Settings option

<img width="1248" alt="Screenshot 2024-04-27 at 16 59 03" src="https://github.com/CTPPS/cmssw_vscode/assets/7374733/09bd4ad4-01a8-451b-b05e-af9a716c2246">

Reviewer: I have them here
<img width="1055" alt="Screenshot 2024-04-27 at 17 00 00" src="https://github.com/CTPPS/cmssw_vscode/assets/7374733/8061475e-8fbc-4775-84e5-a88302e1935a">

Author: Interestingly enough, the [VSCode documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings#_settings-editor) points to an even different route.

I changed it to use the Command Palette, so it should be more platform agnostic.

        2. In the search bar type **C_Cpp.intelliSenseEngine**.
        3. Switch to *disabled*.

> 2. Point *clangd* to the *compile_commands.json* file. A couple of options exist:

Reviewer: Explain better where to find this file, people may work with different releases compiled for different architectures. I think the safest path is to look under `$CMSSW_RELEASE_BASE` variable after initalizing given CMSSW release environment

```
[grzankal@lxplus9112 src]$ source /cvmfs/cms.cern.ch/cmsset_default.sh
[grzankal@lxplus9112 src]$ cmsenv

[grzankal@lxplus9112 src]$ echo $CMSSW_RELEASE_BASE
/cvmfs/cms.cern.ch/el9_amd64_gcc12/cms/cmssw/CMSSW_14_0_6
[grzankal@lxplus9112 src]$ ls $CMSSW_RELEASE_BASE
biglib  cfipython              config  etc       include  logs  python  static
bin     compile_commands.json  doc     external  lib      objs  src     test
```

Author: Done.

    - Add the directory with the file to the clangd settings:
        1. Go to *File -> Settings -> Remote [SSH: lxplus.cern.ch]*
        2. In the search bar type **clangd.arguments**.

>         3. Add a new argument: `--compile-commands-dir=<path-to-cvmfs-repo>`. For instance: `--compile-commands-dir=/cvmfs/cms.cern.ch/el9_amd64_gcc12/cms/cmssw/CMSSW_14_0_2`.

Reviewer: to be more precise that is the path to path-to-cvmfs-cmssw-base, rather than cvmfs-repo

Author: I removed it and substituted it with the CMSSW_BASE env variable.

>     - Create a symbolic link to the file: in your terminal execute `ln -s <path-to-cvmfs-repo> <path-to-your-repo>`. For instance: `ln -s /cvmfs/cms.cern.ch/el9_amd64_gcc12/cms/cmssw/CMSSW_14_0_2/compile_commands.json /afs/cern.ch/user/t/tostafin/scratch1/CMSSW_14_0_2`.

Reviewer: Are you assuming silently that users are opening in vscode folder `/afs/cern.ch/user/t/tostafin/scratch1/CMSSW_14_0_2` ?
I am usually opening only `src` subdirectory. 

Be more explicit here. Should this file be copied to the CMSSW_14_0_2 or to the main folder opened in vscode ?

Author: I removed all examples as they're not needed anymore when we use the env variables now.

>     - Copy the file: in your terminal execute `cp <path-to-cvmfs-repo> <path-to-your-repo>`. For instance: `cp /cvmfs/cms.cern.ch/el9_amd64_gcc12/cms/cmssw/CMSSW_14_0_2/compile_commands.json /afs/cern.ch/user/t/tostafin/scratch1/CMSSW_14_0_2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Copy the file: in your terminal execute `cp <path-to-cvmfs-repo> <path-to-your-repo>`. For instance: `cp $CMSSW_RELEASE_BASE/compile_commands.json /afs/cern.ch/user/t/tostafin/scratch1/CMSSW_14_0_2`.
```

Author: Done, and I also used the CMSSW_BASE env variable.

# cmssw_vscode
Recipies to develop CMSSW using VSCode

## Indexing files
Indexing files allows VSCode to easily resolve references to imported files. This provides:
- errors and warnings detection

    ![Errors and warnings detection](./static/errors_and_warnings.gif "Errors and warnings detection")
- go to definition

    ![Go to definition](./static/go_to_def.gif "Go to definition")

- find references

    ![Find references](./static/find_references.gif "Find references")

> 

Reviewer: I would move them up as in my opinion this is mostly used feature, error and warnings detection is not so crucial here

Author: Done.

More details and features in the [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/editingevolved#_go-to-definition) and [clangd](https://clangd.llvm.org/features) documentations.

### C++
Indexing C++ files is based on the *clangd* extension alongside a *compile-commands.json* file.
1. Install clangd.
    1. In VSCode in the side bar go to *Extensions*.
    2. In the search bar type **clangd**.
    3. Click *Install*.
    4. Click *Install in SSH: lxplus.cern.ch*.
    5. Disable IntelliSense if you have to installed (comes with the C/C++ Microsoft extension).
        1. In VSCode press Ctrl + Shift + P, type **Preferences: Open Settings (UI)** and click Enter.
        2. Switch to *Remote [SSH: lxplus.cern.ch]*.
        3. In the search bar type **C_Cpp.intelliSenseEngine**.
        4. Switch to *disabled*.
2. Initialize your CMSSW release environment: execute `cmsenv` in the *src* subdirectory of your CMSSW repo.

> 3. Point clangd to the *compile_commands.json* file. A couple of options exist:

Reviewer: It would be good to mention that `CMSSW_RELEASE_BASE` points usually to location on CVMFS shared network file system. It is not common knowledge to where this location points to. Readers may be confused with local directory where CMSSW is cloned

Author: Done.

    - Add the directory with the file to the clangd settings:
        1. In VSCode press Ctrl + Shift + P, type **Preferences: Open Settings (UI)** and click Enter.
        2. Switch to *Remote [SSH: lxplus.cern.ch]*.
        3. In the search bar type **clangd.arguments**.
        4. Add a new argument: `--compile-commands-dir=${env:CMSSW_RELEASE_BASE}`.
    - Create a symbolic link to the file: in your terminal with the environment set up execute `ln -s $CMSSW_RELEASE_BASE/compile_commands.json $CMSSW_BASE`.

>     - Copy the file: in your terminal with the environment set up execute `cp $CMSSW_RELEASE_BASE/compile_commands.json $CMSSW_BASE`.

Reviewer: It would be good to explicitly mention that VSCode will look for this file in `$CMSSW_BASE`, not in `src` directory and that would work even if we open `src` directory in VSCode

Author: Done.

    3. Click *Install*.
    4. Click *Install in SSH: lxplus.cern.ch*.
    5. Disable IntelliSense if you have to installed (comes with the C/C++ Microsoft extension).
        1. In VSCode press Ctrl + Shift + P, type **Preferences: Open Settings (UI)** and click Enter.
        2. Switch to *Remote [SSH: lxplus.cern.ch]*.
        3. In the search bar type **C_Cpp.intelliSenseEngine**.
        4. Switch to *disabled*.
2. Initialize your CMSSW release environment: execute `cmsenv` in the *src* subdirectory of your CMSSW repo. This will add two additional environment variables:
    - `CMSSW_RELEASE_BASE`: path to the CMSSW repo on the CVMFS shared network file system.
    - `CMSSW_BASE`: path to your locally cloned CMSSW repo.
3. Point clangd to the *compile_commands.json* file. VSCode will look for it on the `CMSSW_BASE` path, regardless which subdirectory you open. A couple of options exist:
    - Add the directory with the file to the clangd settings:
        1. In VSCode press Ctrl + Shift + P, type **Preferences: Open Settings (UI)** and click Enter.
        2. Switch to *Remote [SSH: lxplus.cern.ch]*.
        3. In the search bar type **clangd.arguments**.

>         4. Add a new argument: `--compile-commands-dir=${env:CMSSW_RELEASE_BASE}`.

Reviewer: How this will work if you clone one repository, say based on CMSSW 14_0_2, work with this a bit, then clone another repo based on CMSSW 14_1_0.

Will VSCode switch automatically to newer compile_commands.json file ?

Author: Thanks for catching that. Fix in https://github.com/CTPPS/cmssw_vscode/pull/2.
